It has never been easier to blow up on
Instagram, especially if you are an
entrepreneur, a business owner, looking
to grow your business using social media
and make more money. And if you've been
struggling to grow on Instagram, get
more views, get more followers, get more
engagement, this might be the most
important thing for you to pay attention
to. And I'm going to share with you my
three-step framework for succeeding on
Instagram that I've used with seven,
eight, and nine-figure companies. And I
currently right now manage a brand that
does over 300 million views on Instagram
every month. And I myself have built my
around 185,000 followers on Instagram
almost as a side hustle. And I don't say
that as a way to minimize it. I say it
because you don't really need that much
time
to have success. You just need the right
things and you need to be pulling the
right levers to do so. And that's what
we're going to talk about today. And in
front of me, I have my laptop with notes
and I'm going to use that as a guide
just to kind of help me structure this
because it's easier than a teleprompter
and I've used a teleprompter in the past
and uh I like it, but I want to use my
laptop because it just kind of helps me
flush out thoughts. Step number one,
format. And when I say format, I'm
talking about a signature format,
something that is repeatable and
predictable. I need you to think of this
like you're building your own show. And
each video that you create and that you
post is essentially its own episode,
okay? And just alone, this signature
format took a fitness client of mine
from 60,000 followers to 1.5 million
followers in 6 months.
I'm going to say that again. This alone,
having format took a client of mine in
the fitness space from 60,000 followers
to 1.5 million followers in 6 months.
And her entire thing was being your
unapologetic, quote unquote, gym bestie.
And these videos for her got millions
every single time. It wasn't a oh, I
think this video is going to do well or
I hope this video is going to do well.
No, no. Like this got millions when we
did this series. These kept getting
millions and even tens of millions on
repeat. It almost became like a you put
a coin in the machine and you hit the
slot machine and you knew you're going
to win every single time. That good. And
signature formats are exactly what some
of the biggest creators that you've
either seen or that you follow are
doing. Think about someone like Joshua
Stevens. She has completely dominated
the baking niche and she's found a
format that she has repeated over and
over and over again and she goes viral
every single time. Another one of my
favorites is Trent. Trent has found a
series where he goes to different stores
and he shows you what to buy for fat
loss. And those videos do well for him
every single time. Or someone like Trent
Miller, who has completely dominated the
real estate space. He does this thing
called speed tours where he will
literally speed through a home showing
you all of the features. And the reason
that works is because it's a pattern
interrupt. Because what do most real
estate agents do? They just show before
and after photos, but Trent has found a
new way to put a spin on it. Or for
example, take Lisa DuBois, who is in
Virginia. One of the things that she
does is she plays hide and seek with all
of her new listings. She's almost making
it a game, right? But that's a series
that her audience can now look forward
to. Her content now becomes predictable
and it becomes repeatable. Because when
you make your content predictable, it
then makes your audience feel
comfortable with you. They almost come
to expect it. And when they can expect
this content, they're going to stay
engaged, which is exactly what you want.
And just a little tip with Instagram,
they just released a new update where
you can link a reel on your videos. And
this is a literal cheat code for getting
more views, getting more engagement,
growing faster. Because if you are doing
a signature series, well, you can link
back to the video prior. So for example,
if you're doing a series where it's a
multi-day part series, you know, day
seven, a day eight, day nine, like well,
link the day before. Or if it's like
part 27 or part five, part three,
whatever it is, link the reel prior so
people can follow the series. Because
you never know what video someone's
going to come across and if you have it
ready to where they can go now watch the
other series, they're going to go down a
rabbit hole. And guess what? The longer
people stay on your page,
the more you will grow. Why? Because the
more time people spend with you, the
more time they're watching your content,
that's doing two things. Number one,
it's signaling to the algorithm, hey,
this content, we should probably share
it more with people because it's getting
a lot of watch time. They're spending
time on it. Let's share it with more
people. Because guess what? If Instagram
can send content to more people and
they're going to watch more content,
stay on the platform, guess what they
get to do? They get to run more ads. And
when they get to run more ads, they get
to make more money. So you are helping
them, but then they will help you.
And the other thing is, when people
spend more time with you, what are they
doing?
They're going to trust you more. Because
when people spend that time with you, on
not just one video, now it's two, three,
four, however many videos,
they're going to be that much more
likely to want to buy from you
because they've spent more time with
you. And by the way, if you are
struggling with how to develop your
signature series or how to build a
signature series, I teach all this
inside of One Video Way, which is my
entire 90-day program. And if you want
more information about that, just check
the description link below.
You need to join. Number two,
stop making content for you.
I'm going to hammer home on this
very heavily with you. Because if you
are struggling to get views, to get
engagement, to get followers, or even
business from your content, this is
exactly why most business owners and
creators fail because they post content
that they want to post, not what their
audience obsessively cares about.
I'm going to say that again.
Most creators and business owners fail
because they post content they want,
not what their audience obsessively
cares about. You need to stop making
content for yourself.
And you need to start making content for
the person on the other end of the
phone,
the laptop, or the TV.
Whatever it is. And I am so sick and
tired of the advice that's oh well, just
post content that you like. Just post
content that you're aligned with. Just
post content that is yourself
expression.
You kidding me?
Yes, you should be aligned with the
content. Like you should be energized
about the content. You should love what
you're putting out. Because number one,
other people will feel that, but number
two, if you don't believe what you're
actually selling, don't expect anyone
else to. But this whole notion that it's
like, well, no, you shouldn't make
content for other people. You should
make content for you. I hate to break it
to you, my friend, but the reason people
are on social media is for them.
They have a problem they want solved.
They want to be entertained. They don't
care about you.
Other people do not care about you until
they know you care about them.
I'm going to let that sink
Other people
do not care about you
until they know you care about them. And
I know that might trigger some people,
but this is exactly why your business
is not growing
with your content and why you are not
making any money from your social media.
It's because you are not caring enough
about the person on the other end of the
phone.
You care too much about yourself. Making
content is about the other person.
You have to care more about them than
you care about you. And I want to give
you three forms of content that you need
to be focusing on
when it comes to well, what kind of
content should I make? What should Let's
just focus on three. Number one,
trending topics. What are things that
are happening right now
that you can insert yourself into the
conversation to to show that you are
staying on top of things, to show that
you are staying in the know, that you
are staying up to date with things. Like
what's happening in your world? If you
think about fitness, is there something
that happened within a a certain
celebrity that tried some diet that I
don't know, that maybe you want to react
to? Think about real estate. Like were
there some
uh
tax cuts? Were there some interest rates
that dropped? Like what are things in
your niche and your industry that you
can react to? That you can give your two
cents on. That's number one. Number two,
evergreen topics.
When I say evergreen, these these are
things that no matter what time of year,
what time of season someone's at in
their life,
this is the stuff that they're always
going to be searching for. This is the
stuff that they will always need help
with. What are the common questions that
maybe you get? And I really want you to
think about this one because most
business owners and most entrepreneurs
are like, well, I have no idea what to
make. I have no idea what people want.
Well, what are the questions you
probably get over and over again? That's
quite literally staring at you in the
face that you're just like, oh,
that's what people have problems with?
Cuz I guarantee you, if one person has
that question,
hundreds, thousands, hundreds of
thousands, if not millions of people
also have that question and need help.
That's number two. Number three,
explorative content. This is the content
where I want you to put your own spin on
things. I want you to give your voice on
something. I want you to package it a
certain way. I want you to try different
formats.
This is stuff that your audience may not
always be searching for this, but they
are interested in it. These could be
different topics. For example, I'll
relate it to myself. When I do different
videos around oh, like this style of
content is is blowing up. And it happens
to be like the S-tier video.
Where I'm showing you, hey, this is
working for other people right now. Like
I know you're not searching for this
style of video, but I'm telling you that
this is something that's working right
now. I'm going to show you how it's
working and how you can do it. Again,
you're not searching for that stuff,
but it's stuff that you are interested
in because you want to get more views.
You want to get more followers. You want
to grow your business. And if that kind
of video could do well for you, well, I
want to share with you because I want
you to do it. And with the three forms
of content that I want you to be
creating, then you need to focus on a
three-step framework that I have that I
want to give you and that you need to
follow for every single video
or piece of content you make. This could
be a carousel, this could be a static
image, whatever it is. This will
instantly start giving you the results
that you would want.
And I'll explain the psychology behind
it, okay?
Let me talk you through this. So number
one is pain and problem.
What are you introducing?
How are you introducing this?
What are you talking about? How are you
talking about it? This is where your
hook matters a lot.
Because you need to communicate to me,
as a person who's watching, why should I
care about whatever it is that you were
talking about today? Why should I care
about whatever it is that
you're showing me?
And especially in today's day and age,
specifically we're talking about
Instagram,
most people are like, well, you have 3
seconds. I think you have like a second.
I don't know about you, but I even pay
attention to how I scroll and I'm just
like, yeah, boring. Next, next, next.
And like, it's like I'm not even giving
it a cha- I'm not even letting the
person breathe.
I'm just like, nope, next, next, next.
Like, you have 1 to 3 seconds max. And
if you are growing a business or you are
trying to grow your business on social
media, odds are you are trying to sell a
solution to a problem that someone has.
So, what is the problem that you are
introducing? How are you introducing
this problem? Why should I care about
this problem? Is this a problem that I
struggle with? This is all to do with
the pain and the problem. That's number
one.
And psychologically, what you need to be
doing with your content is getting your
audience to say yes. So, within the pain
and the problem, are you introducing it
in a clear way that gets the audience to
be like, yep, that's me. Yes, that's me.
That's the first yes. The second yes is
proof. Why should I believe you? Do you
have the numbers to back it up? Do you
have studies? Do you have testimonials?
Do you have photos? Do you have videos?
This shows to the person watching that
you do know what you're talking about
and that you can be trusted. This is the
second yes, right? Because now I can see
and be like, okay, yeah, I see I see
yep, got it. That's me. And now number
three, the payoff. This is the most
important because this is where 99% of
creators, business owners, and maybe
even you
have gone wrong. Because this is the
stuff, this is the glue that holds your
videos together.
What's in it for the other person
watching?
What can they go do as a result after
Right? For example, I talked about
Trent,
who is a great fitness creator, by the
way. I will add him in the description
below, so you know who I'm talking
about. He's a fantastic fitness creator
who goes to places like Costco or Trader
Joe's, and he shows you different things
to buy to lose fat. Well,
what does that do for me? I can
literally now go to Trader Joe's or to
Costco and go buy that thing.
Like, I can go do it immediately.
Right away.
And this is the key, is that you need to
minimize the amount of time it takes for
someone to be able to implement or take
action on whatever it is that you are
trying to teach them, and you need to
ensure that you are what you are
teaching them,
that you can allow them to take action
on it and repeat it over and over and
over again. So, whatever food it is at
Costco that I should go get, well, I can
go take action on it, but guess what? I
can keep buying it. I can keep seeing a
new result over and over and over again.
The same thing with your content.
But I want to make this clear. The
payoff is the most important aspect.
Yes, your hook matters a lot.
But ultimately, the payoff, in terms of
what's in it for the other person on the
other end of the phone, matters a lot
more.
And if you do not have that clear, do
not bother making a single piece of
content. I mean this. Like, I I'm
really, really serious about this.
You need to be very clear on what is the
other person gaining out of this.
Because like I mentioned, people are
selfish. When people go to social, it's
it's for them. Like when I'm on there,
I'm like, I want to learn something. I
need to I want to be entertained. I
Whatever it is, like those are my goals.
That's what I selfishly want. Well,
that's how other people are thinking,
too. And so when you meet them where
they are,
and when you give them what they want,
then you win. And that is getting them
to say yes for the third time. Because
when they know what's in it for them,
now they're like, well, I'm going to
trust you more. Like, you got them to
say yes three times.
And when you do that with every single
piece of content, I promise you, it's
not a matter of if you will win.
It's only a matter of when. Number
three, retention triggers.
This is how you make people watch until
the end. Because here's the thing,
Instagram does not reward you for having
the best idea. It rewards you for having
a video that people actually watch.
And you could have the best idea in the
world, but if people are not watching
past the first 3 seconds,
it doesn't matter what your topic was.
It's irrelevant. This is where the
packaging comes into play for all of
your content. And there's three simple
rules three simple rules that you can
apply immediately when it comes to
packaging, okay? Number one, open loops.
This is where you tease something at the
beginning and you pay it off at the end.
Because it's an open curiosity loop for
us, to where it's like, ooh, that's
interesting or oh yes, I I'm curious.
Like I want I want to know what that is.
It creates that internally for you and
you have to close it. Us as human
beings, like psychologically, when we
hear an open loop, we have to close it.
It's like that mental itch that we have
to scratch.
Number two, pattern interrupts. Can you
change the angle when you're filming?
Can you show a graphic? Can you show a
video on the screen? Can you show
different things that keeps the video
engaging? Again, if applicable, if you
need to be doing this. Otherwise, don't
abuse it. Number three,
mini payoffs. These need to almost act
as a reward for the audience watching
because it shows that you value their
time. And they don't want to feel like
they're wasting their time. People who
are watching content don't want to feel
like they just spent a waste of 10
minutes watching a video or a waste of
however long, and then they're like, oh,
I never want to do that again. If you
can keep people on the platform,
you are making Instagram money. And they
will reward you because they know you're
doing a good job of keeping them on the
platform and watching. And if people
don't feel like their time is being
wasted, and instead you are offering a
piece of value or you're offering a
takeaway or offering something they can
go gain or they can learn. Like, if
you're offering these little things
throughout the video, they're going to
look at that as like, that was a great
video. I learned a lot. That was that
was that was amazing. Like, it's like
these little checkpoints that they need
to go through. And an example that I
want to illustrate for you that talked
about this perfectly is when I make
videos talking about Instagram updates,
okay? So, I made a video talking about
how Instagram had a couple different
updates, and the video went like this. I
said, Instagram just dropped two massive
updates, but the second one might make
you upset.
Well,
I'm making it clear with the videos that
I added an open loop of, okay, there's
two updates. And then I said, well, the
second one might make you upset.
Immediately you're like, well, I want to
know because I want to know if it's
actually going to make me upset or not,
right? And then throughout the video I'm
like showing examples, I'm showing
graphics, I'm showing videos. Like, I'm
giving different payoffs and different
things
throughout that act as a reward because
I value your time and I don't want you
to feel like you're wasting it. And so
before you know it, well, wow, that was
a 45-second video. Holy cow, I didn't
even realize that, right? And that's the
name of the game is when you can keep
people watching, when you can retain
them longer, and have them stay on the
platform, have them stay on your videos,
you will be rewarded. And when you can
check all of these three things, I
promise you,
Instagram for you
will not even be on easy mode. It'll be
on like effortless mode. As if you can
just flip the camera on and you know
exactly what to do. You know exactly
what to make. And it is so effortless,
it is so easy
because Instagram is on easy mode right
now. And if you are struggling with
growing on Instagram or you are
struggling with growing on social media,
number one, you need to join One Video
Way because it should not feel
difficult. Social media and Instagram
should not feel tough. It should not
feel difficult with making content. And
if you struggle with video ideas or how
to package stuff or how to even create
content or you're talking to, we solve
all of that in One Video Way, so check
the description below. So, I hope this
helped. And if you want to grow on
social media or you just want to make
better content, please make sure to
subscribe. And apparently, YouTube said
this is the best video for you to watch
next. So, click it, check it out, and
I'll see you there.